So, the first one again,
these are just basically to get our,
it's one thing to look at a bunch
of slides with observables on it.
It's another thing to just kind of like
play around with them a little bit.
And so, we're always going to kind of have
a bias towards getting our hands dirty
with some of this stuff and
just playing around with it.
This first one is not much
different than we saw before.
In fact, in this case,
we have in a single value,
right, so we can unskip this one and
not too much given
previously where we'll say,
observable of 1 and
then we'll subscribe to it.
Push(value)and I'm gonna put that on my
clipboard cuz I'm gonna use it one or
two more times as we go along.
So, just as we saw before,
this isn't much different.
Cool, so, then we have this idea
that we want to just have one of
a bunch of objects, right?
And this one is to kind of somewhat
resemble a reducer in this case
where we might have a bunch of
actions that flow through, right.
We might want to then be able to turn
that stream of actions that are happening
through our UI that are being dispatched,
if you will, into an observable as well.
And again, this one we're gonna use of but
it is relatively the same basic idea
where we can pass in primitive values.
We can pass in objects as long as we
separate them out as arguments as well.
So one, skip this one and
in this case, we will go ahead and
say, And I'm, just grabbed this,
will have each of those arguments,
As well.
And we need to subscribe to it because if
you don't subscribe to it, then the test
will fail because you will not actually
put those values into the array.
And that's again, the simple act of
creating observable does not do anything.
Observables only activate
when you subscribe to them.
Which kind of there was some questions
earlier about like frameworks.
One of the really cool things about this
is you can set up all your logic and
you say, hey, when this component mounts,
subscribe to this observable.
When an unmounts unsubscribed to the
observable and now you don't necessarily
have to like worry about these things
it's just kind of happening for
you in this case.
Cool, so, in this case we just separated
as different objects again if you had
an array and you wanna use array what's
the utility function that we use.
From exactly.
All right, speaking of from, so
here is the basically the same idea,
but in this case we want to use it
as an array, so here we'll say,
Equals from and now we're given
an array instead of individual objects.
Yeah, for more times especially when you
have things in array this is just probably
the one you can use just a little
bit more, we go paste that in there
as well and then we'll grab these
values and keep them in array, right?
So, making some of the observables.
Effectively, pretty straightforward.
Now, again, when you have all your
values from the get go, right, like,
you probably could have
just used an array.
This is really useful when we have
things when we're dealing with multiple
observables, where we're getting
different values out and
we wanna turn it into a stream.
And we'll see this when we start
combining observables like, hey,
I have this observable stream, hey, I
have this thing that's not an observable.
I really need to make it an observable, so
I can combine those two streams
together and do some work with them.
A lot of times you just need to convert
your data into the basic through
the same kind of format, so you can
use it throughout your application.
So, skip this one as well, validate that
it works, kinda move along in case it,
will check back if it doesn't, but,
all right, so here we have a generator.
And I said before generators
are kind of observables,
where they kind of we'll generate it will
basically yield the first value pause,
yield the second value pause,
yield the third value pause and
eventually return the fourth
value in this case.
Now, you look at the test, you'll notice
something a little bit different here,
which is, we only expect it equal 1,
2, and 3.
Does anyone know why?
>> Yeah,
a return is basically a completion.
Observables actually don't pass
an argument to complete anyway.
So, the only things that
are yielded from this one
in this case are the three values.
So, we'll go ahead and skip this one.
And we'll go ahead and
we'll just make one from,
And the other thing we have to do is a lot
of times you think you could just pass
that in, you actually need to create
the generator instance itself or
else it won't do the thing and
we'll say observable dot subscribe
Awesome, run that test.
>> So maybe you wouldn't do this,
but if you were
writing a generator function that you
wanted to turn into an observable,
should just never expect
to get that return value?
>> Yeah, you should never
expect to the return value.
Where generators and observables become
interesting gather we'll see this later,
is if you have a generator
that maybe is infinite, right?
If you look at this one's just running
through the generator 1 2 3 going for
it, right?
When we get to operators and
we'll see just making things into
streams is great and wonderful.
It is manipulating those streams and
playing around with time that becomes
a little bit more interesting.
That's where like we can have
an infinite generator set.
We only want values in a certain
case up to a certain extent,
skipping this many values.
A lot of times your generator if it was
quote unquote infinite needs some stopping
maximums like a for loops, right?
Otherwise you end up with an infinite
loop if you tried to iterate over it.
Basically, an observable allows you just
take out the difference between generating
values that can be the generators job,
knowing when to start and
stop it becomes the observables job and
we have a separation of concerns.
And I will show you some code in
a little bit that will basically,
will see a generator has a stopping
condition, will see a generator that goes
infinite will then use observables to
create the starting and stopping as well.
Which means that you can
then use the same generator,
multiple places throughout
your application.
And then let the observables the different
observables you're using different places
be in charge of knowing exactly what to
do with those values as they go through.
Alright, so
now we have those asynchronous issues.
Here we have one we'll
deal with a promise.
So, here we have just done function
which allows us to tell just when
to actually check everything.
So, we can kind of go through here and
now we need to figure out not only when
a value is emitted that's important,
but we've done that we've done
that like three times we got it.
But also knowing when it's completed
cuz it's when the test is completed,
that we need to actually check to
see if the results are the right or
what we think they are.
So, here's a promise, resolves one,
we should see that result in an array.
Let's go ahead and
let's create the observable first.
And we'll say from our
promise in this case, and so
now we need to subscribe to it.
And if I just give it an x value,
this test will fail.
Let's make it fail.
Let's do it.
So, if we do it the way that
we've normally been doing it.
Result.push(value), run it,
should probably unskip
it if we'd like to fail.
But we'll run in this case and it's going
to fail because nothing got put into your
array yet because basically
we subscribe to the promise.
The promise went on the event loop, right?
Then the test one to see if
there's anything in the array.
There's nothing there yet.
Check, the test failed and
then the thing I put in the array, right?
So, in this case what we
wanna do is we want to wait
until the observable has been completed.
So, here we'll say next,
we'll put the value in and
then when it completes that's when
we'll go through expect everything and
then tell Jess that we're
all done in this case.
So, run it again.
Great, now it passes, right and
so, there's nothing synchronous or
asynchronous about observables.
And we'll see a little bonus
section at the very end.
Like how exactly this
might work under the hood.
But, in the case of asynchronous ones,
you just have to treat them that way.
All right, so,
what happens when a promise rejects?
So, the nice part about from is that it,
when you give it a promise,
kind of wire itself up to all of the kind
of accoutrements of promises in this case.
So, what we can do is what
happens when a promise rejects.
What do we use to find that error?
Catch, right.
And so, basically,
when it resolves, we get an x value.
When it catches we it emits
an error value alright?
And then it completes,
is observable made directly from
a promise is very similar to a promise.
It resolves.
It rejects and then it completes.
Why is this useful?
Because you can imagine a world
where somewhere in observable,
we might wanna to make an API request,
right?
And being able to then get that back
into the stream is super helpful for us.
So, we'll go ahead and
we will kind of try this out.
So, here we have a promise
that immediately rejects.
And so, what we'll do in
this case is we need to say
Observable in this case, and
it will be from this promise,
which is not gonna go well.
And in this case we will say
observable dot subscribe and this one
is never going to give us an x value,
you could prepare for the happy path, but
like this is a pretty straightforward
promise it's going to reject.
That's all it knows how to do is reject.
So, in this case,
we have an error situation.
Now, the thing about errors with
observables is error is effectively
a completion state as well, right?
When an observable encounters an error,
it's done, it unsubscribes.
Game over, right?
So, we can actually put our done logic
in this case in the error as well.
So, this time instead of getting nothing
like complete you will at least get
a copy of the error and so here we will
go ahead and we'll grab our test logic.
We wanna skip it.
And we can see.
Awesome.